## Personal-Essay
#####Phebe Abraham

######1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?

  I am interested in programming because there are still untapped capabilities in the field of technology which can greater advance society. I would like to gain the necessary knowledge to be a top programmer and become a part of the advancement in technology.

  In high school I had the opportunity to take a two-year class called Information Technology in a Global Society. In this class I was able to receive more formal guidance through basic programs. This class resulted in the conception of my passion for software development. This event in my life sparked my interest in programming and through the increased accessibility of resources, I began to teach my self the basics in coding. Since I did not have any formal training, I taught myself through online resources and exposed myself to basics in coding, Java script, the command line, and creating a website. I also took on small projects for my church such as, creating video presentations for special events and creating a webpage. These projects allowed me to practice what I was learning and gave me the experience to increase my familiarity with certain tasks and programs.
  
  I would like to pursue programming more seriously so that I may use my skills to help advance the field of technology, as well as the community and society.

######2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?

  If accepted into the program, and upon completion, I would make sure that I work as a developer in a good company. This would allow me to gain greater knowledge, growth, and experience in the field. Once I gain some experience in this manner, I would also like to pursue my desire of creating an educational program which can meet national standards and increase the quality of education for all students, regardless of race or socio-economic background. This is an idea which I have been developing over time, but with the future knowledge in programming and the experience that is gained through working with a big company, this idea for an educational program could actually begin. 

######3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mision and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?

  I would be a good candidate for Ada’s program because my ideals and goals are aligned with Ada’s vision for an inclusive and diverse community. Ada’s statement claims that the program is inclusive of all women and all individuals who identify as part of the women’s community. It also states that Ada’s mission is to diversify the field of technology. As a female, I understand the generalized lack of gender diversity in the professional setting. I would be a good fit for Ada because I would like to use the skills I learn to promote and increase the passion for technology among younger students, especially females. I have had many opportunities to work in education and teach young students both formally and informally. I have done this voluntarily since it is something I am passionate about. I believe that would serve as an opportunity for me to share my skills and knowledge with younger students and serve as a female figure in technology for other young girls to look up to.  
  
  The lack of diversity is an issue that I personally understand. As an ethnic minority, I understand what it is like to grow up in areas with little to no diversity, and the struggles which resulted from such an environment. I will contribute to Ada’s mission by working with the community in order to promote diversity within technology. Based on my background, it is easier for me to work with individuals of different ethnicities because I can better relate with them. I enjoy working with minority students to help promote higher education and quality education among all students. I would easily be able to share my skills with minorities, as well as females, both of which would help contribute towards Ada’s vision of inclusivity and diversity in a long-term manner. 
  
######4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?  

Over the past few years, I have become a very active member in my church. I have volunteered on many projects and teach a Sunday school class every week. Whenever I agree to do a certain job, I always put in my very best effort and will go above and beyond the expectations for that task. Although this is a characteristic that I am pleased with, it becomes much more taxing on an individual when they start to take up too many jobs. This was the case for myself, as I found myself in a position where I agreed to help with too many things.  

One particular instance was for a summer vacation bible school (VBS) which the church put together for the youth of the community. There was a group of 5 individuals, including myself, that came into the church every day the week before the VBS was scheduled and we worked on cleaning and decorating the church from morning to evening. I was also in charge of creating skits for the opening assembly, learning the skit (since I was part of the assembly), learning all the songs so that I may teach the kids, helping out with the Kindergarten group, and creating a video for the final day of the event. Those two weeks were very hectic and I was constantly busy but getting very little rest. During the VBS event I was part of so many tasks that I was constantly running around and busy with the jobs that I had agreed to. It was an enjoyable event and I do not regret it at all, however, I did learn that I should not overload myself and take on too many tasks. Even though I was able to do an excellent job I realized that it’s better to delegate certain roles to other people as well. Rather than doing everything myself because I want it to be a certain way, it is better to give roles to other people and provide them clear instructions on what to do. That way I am able to incorporate more individuals to the project and the job gets done quickly and smoothly.  

If I encounter this situation again I will definitely share the job and give other individuals a role as well. I would assign a leader for each group so that there is clear communication between the individuals helping and the individuals who are in charge of the greater group. Clear instructions would be provided so that the task is completed exactly as it was envisioned. I would also make sure that we begin preparations earlier to remove the unnecessary rushing and this would be more considerate to other people’s schedules as well. 

